TITLE:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Utilizacao de ambientes paralelos no processo de aprendizado de algoritmos de busca de
caminho em tempo real

ABSTRACT:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The constant evolution of electronic games enables the creation of increasingly realistic
and immersive environments. Along with this evolution, it is necessary that the interaction
between game and player also go towards realism, where Artificial Intelligence
is one of the areas responsible for providing such interaction. Moreover, the evolution
of the hardware present in video-games, such as multi-core processors, is remarkable.
The presence of parallel environments changes the paradigm of game programming,
and such changes also apply to Artificial Intelligence algorithms. One of the steps
in the design of artificial intelligence for games is the movement of entities inside a
game. The main technique used to control the movement of these entities is the path-
finding, which consist in finding a best cost path between two points. Although in
most cases traditional algorithms such as A* solve this problem without compromising
performance, the increase in the size and complexity of the maps and also the
presence of a massive number of entities in the same environment makes the use of
these algorithms affect the game performance. This problem is solved by the real-time
search algorithms, where the search occurs in a limited area and does not increase with
the size of problem. Real-time search algorithms have a learning component, which
avoids local minima and improve the results for future searches, in order to reach the
minimum cost path. This process is named convergence. In this work, we present a
parallelization strategy that aims to reduce the time of convergence, keeping the real
time constraints of this type of search. The parallelization technique consist on the
use of auxiliary searches without real-time restrictions, where all the searches share the
learning acquired with the main search. The empirical evaluation, performed on Cell
Broadband Engine Architecture, shows that even with the additional cost required for
the coordination of searches, the reduction in the time to convergence is significant,
showing gains both in searches occurring in environments with fewer local minima and
in larger searches, where performance improvement is even better.
